#summary Documentation
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

Many programming projects rely on third party libraries or modules. When embedding those open source libraries into your product, a proper release documentation must be provided in which you document that the particular requirements of the licences are met.

In a larger team you can easily loose track of 3rd party libraries that are used in your project and it is hard keep the release documentation up to date. Hence, we developed a little tool which does this work for us:

License Collector is an ANT task that generates a html file in which all integrated 3rd party libraries are listed with their license specification and acknowlegdements.

The only thing the developer needs to think of is creating an information sheet when integrating/commiting libraries. Then this small tool will render a nice Third Party License Term List, and your legal counsel will be happy.


= Details =

Introduce the task into your antfile
{{{
<taskdef name="lcollector" classname="org.fluidops.ant.task.LicenseCollectorTask" classpath="lcollector.jar"/>
}}}

Then run your task with
{{{
<lcollector 
  libraryFolder="${root}/lib" 
  licenseFolder="${root}/licenses" 
  htmlTemplate="${root}/licenses/mytemplate.html"
  outputFile="${root}/3rdparty.html"
/>
}}}

The parameters are as follows:
  *  libraryFolder: root folder of libraries, start for recursive search for .lic files
  *  licenseFolder: folder in which the plain license files are located
  *  outputFile:	   the file path of the rendered html file 
  *  htmpTemplate:  optional, a customized html template

A .lic file looks like this (property file with key-value pairs):
{{{
#An example license
Date=2004-2009
License_Type=Apache Software License 2.0
Licensor=The Apache Foundation
Description=Apache Ant is a Java-based build tool. In theory, it is kind of like make, without make's wrinkles.
Library=apache-ant
Acknowledgements=see Notice.txt
}}}

The `License_Type` denotes the type of the license and in the rendering process the tool looks for a file called `%License_Type%.license` in the specified licenseFolder or its subfolders. It is recommended as good practice to put the '.lic' files in the same folder where the actual library is located.

This means that you can easily use custom licenses:

  * create a .license file (plain text) and put it into your licenses folder (the folder is specified from within the ant task)

  * in the .lic file set the `License_Type` to the file name of your created .license file `(`e.g. `MyCustomLicense.license` will be `License_Type=MyCustomLicense)`
  * the tool will do the rendering for you

To render the third party license list, this tool uses a html template, which can be specified using the ant-parameter `html_template` (optional; if not specified a default file will be used). This file contains the basic layout as well as style information and it will be used during the rendering process. Each template file should have a <i>index</i> and a <i>content</i> placeholder, denoted by <b>%index%</b> and 
<b>%content</b>, respectively. These placeholders will be replaced with the actual content.